## Our Core Commitments

At Trinity Church, we want to be a loving community that reflects the
character of God through shared lives transformed by the gospel. We
pursue this goal guided by four core commitments:

1. *God-Centered Worship*: We believe that worship is our response to
what the Bible tells us God is like. So, the focus of our weekly
corporate worship gatherings&mdash;of our readings, prayers, singing,
and sermons&mdash;is what the Bible tells us about the character of
God and his work on our behalf. Emphasizing congregational
participation rather than individual performances, we will reflect on
the promises of the gospel; we will sing together to God and to each
other; and we will hear and respond to the word of God explained
through expositional sermons. For more on worship, click here (TODO:
link to “worship” under Life at Trinity).

2. *Gospel-Centered Discipleship*: Gospel not just means of saving us
but the dna that sets pattern of our growth as
Christians. Discipleship is about learning to see how the message of
the gospel impacts life. So our teaching and small group discussions
will focus on Jesus as the subject of the Bible's overarching story,
and the gospel as the key to life transformation. For more on
discipleship opportunities, click here (TODO: link to “discipleship”
under Life at Trinity).

3. *Covenanted Community*: The Bible clearly teaches that the
Christian life cannot be lived alone, that discipleship comes through
sharing life with other believers. Throughout both the Old and New
Testaments, God chose to reveal his character in the world through
specific communities that he graciously called out and set
apart. According to Jesus, what distinguishes his followers in the
world, what marks them as his disciples, is primarily their love for
one another (Jn. 13:34-35). The foundation of our community, then, is
not the surface ties of normal life&mdash;ties like age, race,
interests or economic status&mdash;but the covenant we make to love
each other as we have been loved by Christ. This covenant, like
marriage, involves both remarkable privilege and sacred
responsibility, both joyful freedom and serious accountability. It
means praying for each other, sharing joy and sorrow, challenging each
other to repent when we sin, and setting aside our own interests to
serve others. For more on church membership, click here (TODO: link to
“membership” under Connect to Trinity).

4. *Christlike Ministry*: We wish to model our ministry towards those
outside the church on the example of Jesus’ life and work, which we
believe has two major implications for us.

  1. First, Jesus believed the world was deeply troubled, full of
     people who were broken and hurting and empty and ultimately
     misguided about how to overcome their problems. Even worse, he
     believed these people faced a real threat of eternal punishment
     because of their rebellion against a holy and righteous
     God. Jesus believed that he was the comprehensive solution to
     these problems.
     
     He came preaching the kingdom of God and urging all people to
     turn away from sin and believe in him. He taught that he had to
     die as a ransom for many, but that he would rise again. And then
     he commissioned his followers to be witnesses to these same
     truths about himself. We believe this gospel message is the
     primary solution to the deepest human needs, and faith in Jesus
     comes only to those who hear this message clearly explained. So
     we will put a premium on personal evangelism and international
     missions.

  1. Beyond the primary emphasis on verbal witness to the gospel,
     Jesus’ life and work offer both a model and a rationale for
     ministries of mercy. Throughout his ministry, Jesus showed
     compassion for the physical needs of the poor, the sick and
     disabled, the hungry, the outcasts. His ministry was consistent
     with what both the Old and New Testaments present as a crucial
     test of authentic piety, namely, care for the poor, the widow,
     the orphan, and the alien. And in his sacrificial death for us,
     Jesus provided the central rationale for our ministries of mercy:
     we must love others freely and sacrificially as we have been
     loved, offering a visual aid pointing towards the gospel through
     our care for those in need.  For more on ministry, click
     here (TODO: link to “ministry” under Life at Trinity).
