## Meet the pastor

Matt McCullough has been actively teaching and preaching in various
churches for more than 10 years. But Trinity is his first full-time
pastoral position. Until recently he's spent most of his time in the
academic world, working towards a PhD in American religious history
from Vanderbilt University while teaching, editing and writing on the
side. Matt has enjoyed more than 7 wonderful years of marriage to
Lindsey, whom he married shortly after both completed elementary
school. And, if Lindsey's to be believed, he has far too much
emotional energy invested in the fate of Auburn Tigers football and
Atlanta Braves baseball. This in spite of the fact that he lacks any
trace of athletic ability.

Read on to hear more from Matt about his conversion and his path
towards pastoral ministry.

Like so many raised by faithful Christian parents, it is difficult for
me to pinpoint the precise moment of my conversion. I had a solid
intellectual grasp of the content of the gospel from an early age; I
professed faith and was baptized as a child. Mine, as you can see, is
not the kind of story that gets you invited to give your testimony, a
story of hard-living followed by overnight transformation. I was the
kid who did most everything right and loved myself for it--or so I
would come to recognize later. In fact, my teenage years and ever
since have been about learning from experience how deep my sin goes
and how desperately I need a savior.

As a lifelong nerd (Star Wars Trivial Pursuit, anyone?) with a
voracious appetite for books, when I began to sense call to ministry
as high school student I developed strong interest in studying
theology, church history, and biblical languages. And with this in
mind I chose Christian college where I could spend most of my time in
these subjects. In many ways my first years there were great; I
learned basic concepts and skills that I think will serve me well till
I die. But I was also cultivating a dangerous, deceptive idol. I
realize now what I didn’t realize then, that all too often I sought
after knowledge, that I served learning, as an end in itself, as a
sort of god in my life. My identity was based on what I knew, or at
least thought I knew. This was an idol that began to crumble for me my
third year in college when I experienced a profound intellectual and
spiritual crisis of faith. Learning more about history, philosophy,
and various world religions caused me to doubt what I knew about God,
Christianity, and the reliability of the Bible, and made me wonder how
I could be sure about anything at all. Without ability to know, to
understand, to explain, I felt like a major plank of my identity was
pulled out from under me. My idol couldn’t bear the weight. I
wasn’t--I couldn’t be--smart enough. I still wear the scars from that
struggle; in many ways, my growth in Christ since that time has been
learning what it is to live in faith in light of my fight with doubt.

One significant result of wrestling with major questions during those
years was that I developed a strong desire to equip myself
intellectually as well as spiritually so that I could both understand
and effectively minister to those with similar experiences. For me,
this meant enrolling in a secular graduate school, and it meant
deciding between a career as a professor or a pastor. Ultimately, I
began to sense a calling to a scenario that, in my mind, would offer
the best of both worlds. Over my several years working towards a PhD
in church history from Vanderbilt University, all the while teaching
and serving in Nashville’s Grace Community Church, my wife Lindsey and
I became convinced that God was preparing us for pastoral ministry in
a university setting.

We believe Nashville is that ideal setting. We love this city, its
people and its vibrant culture, especially the urban area near the
universities where we’ve spent most of our time. The need for new
congregations--if counterintuitive here in the “buckle of the Bible
belt”--seems clear to us. In particular, Nashville's central urban
neighborhoods are home to many historic congregations, but a large
number have experienced decline in recent decades even as this densely
populated area has received a growing number of residents. And the
large universities give the area a higher than normal concentration of
the students and faculty I felt called and gifted to serve. This sense
of need developed into a strong sense of calling in light of the
circumstances around us. I was nearing the end of graduate school and
ready to pastor. Friends we loved who saw healthy church life like we
did were ready to help us lead. And in Grace Community Church we had a
church willing to lead us, to send us out, and to partner with
us. Needless to say, we’re thrilled to be part of Trinity Church.
